>> Jem Young: Everything we were
discussing before use the old protocol
HTTP1.1.
This was invented in 89?
1.0?
And 1.1 was like 98 or
something like that.
I'm guessing on the dates but
I think I'm about right.
But again this protocol is just
a standard that everybody agreed on.
HTTP1.1 was the latest and
greatest until people said you know what?
This isn't working for us,
we need something a little bit different.
We need something that not just 1.2, we
need something that's entirely different.
Thus HTTP/2 came along, anybody,
excuse me, anybody know what HTTP/2 is?
>> Jem Young: Anybody, anybody, yes?
>> Speaker 2: It's a way
of streaming packets so
that you have a persistent connection and
you don't have to create multiple
connections with each request link.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, you're close,
you're describing almost,
you're driving HTTP/3 actually.
So nice job, but we're jumping a little
ahead, you're on the right track, though.
Get the same answer?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
So it relies on SSL being in place,
you have to have HTTPS setup.
Otherwise, it's a deal breaker for HTTP/2.
Once you have that in place,
then it's an extension of
Google's SPD wire, speedy protocol?
But basically it allows multiplexing.
>> Jem Young: Yes-
>> Speaker 2: That's a big deal.
>> Jem Young: [LAUGH] Nailed it,
nailed it again.
That's why we, again, this journey, we're
following from looking at the headers and
checking off status codes, we understand
what a request and response looks like.
To adding HTTPS to our site,
now we're gonna add HTTP/2.
Because one of the requirements for
HTTP/2 is you have SSL enabled first.
Again, they're just kinda nudging
you in the right direction.
You wanna use the latest
greatest technology.
You gotta have the encryption placed.
With HTTP1.1, like Adar was just saying,
every single request had its own thread,
its own pipe.
So if I wanna request main.js,
request response.
But remember, this is all over TCP,
and TCP has that long handshake
where it sends those SYN packets.
And then it send the acknowledge packets,
the ACK.
And then you send back SYN/ACK,
and it's called the handshake, and
that's really cumbersome.
So that means every single
resource that I want,
is gonna need a separate handshake
which makes it slower by default.
With HTTP/2 we can multiplex, so
you're right that we can
stream our connections over.
Well, we're not streaming but
we can make one connection.
Then we can request everything
just over a larger pipe.
And Sammy mentioned it, but
that's what's known as multiplexing.
Using one connection and doing multiple
things over a single connection.
So instead of that, every single
time I want a dog.png, index.html,
we do that handshake.
Which causes overhead and
increase just an amount of data using.
We can just do with one connection,
that said,
there is a limit to the number
of connections we can make.
And that's largely
depending on your computer.
I should add a side note,
this is just nerd trivia, and
I think it's ten, actually.
People have done, I think it depends
on the browser and the computer,
things like that.
>> Speaker 2: Most browsers
are limited to six connections.
>> Jem Young: Six?
I thought it was ten.
>> Speaker 3: It changed.
>> Jem Young: Per domain.
>> Speaker 3: It used to be six.
>> Jem Young: It's not ten?
>> Speaker 3: It depends on your browser.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, but
this isn't like a silver bullet.
This isn't, I can make one connection and
everything goes through it.
There is a maximum amount of connections
you can make per connection.
So largely it'll be add networks,
you'll just see the deluge of requests,
that's gonna be multiple connections.
So HTTP/2 is not this magic thing but
however,
just getting rid of that handshake, when
you talk about something that happens.
What's bigger than a trillion?
I don't even know.
>> Speaker 2: Quadrillion.
>> Jem Young: Quadrillion, we're
talking about quadrillions of requests,
getting rid of this handshake every single
time, saves a lot of time and energy and
just makes the internet faster.
So let's add HTTP/2.
>> Jem Young: This one's
even easier than Certbot.
In our nginx conf, just add HTTP/2
in between the 443 and the SSL part.
>> Jem Young: I'm sorry, I lied to
you before, Certbot was pretty easy.
This one's even easier.
>> Jem Young: I'm gonna go ahead and
do that.
I'm just gonna go up and come down
here,
>> Jem Young: And turn on http2.
>> Jem Young: And
then I'm gonna turn on http2 here as well.
>> Jem Young: Okay, anybody lost,
anybody know where I am?
If you need to, if you can't find in
that blob of nginx configuration,
/443 and
that'll take you to the right location.
>> Jem Young: Slash is
just the find command.
>> Jem Young: Then when we're done,
we want to write and quit as usual.
Wq and make sure we reload our nginx.
So, sudo service nginx reload.
>> Jem Young: And let's test out our site.
>> Jem Young: Hey, nice work, Jem!
You probably don't notice a difference.
But if you go into your inspector
in whatever browser you're using,
you can see the h2.
That just means you are now
using HTTP/2 protocol.
>> Jem Young: And
I think there's a good demo.
Let me see if I can pull this up here,
let's see.
Akamai http2 demo, yeah,
I like this one.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, so I like this demo,
I didn't include it because I don't have
copyright on it, but I can show it to you.
This is just the Akamai demo,
demonstrating the difference
between HTTP/1 and HTTP/2.
You see it really with large images,
so because of that multplexing,
I can request an image.
And it just sends down
the chunk over one pipe.
And because it's not doing that handshake,
it's much faster.
You see it primarily the benefit on
large files you're sending down.
Not so much small ones, but
turning HTTP/2, it's so painless and easy.
It doesn't hurt to do it, we saw it's
pretty minimal, I'll run that again.
>> Jem Young: Not bad, not bad at all.
That was pretty as
straightforward as we can get.
That was pretty easy.
I don't say that very often, but
that was pretty easy, right?
The second benefit to HTTP/2 besides that
multiplexing is something called HPACK.
HPACK is a compression algorithm again,
but instead of,
let me jump back to the
>> Jem Young: I'll
jump back to the header section.
So what HTTP/2 allows is,
most of these are the same.
My user agent generally is not gonna
change magically between requests and
responses.
It's not gonna change over time,
my Accepts is not gonna change,
my language isn't going to change.
So what the HPACK compression algorithm
does is it takes all these headers,
compresses them into a hash.
And it just compares them over time.
That comparison gives us about a 30,
40% speed up.
Because instead of sending these
headers every single time,
it can just compress these down and
then read them at will.
That's really powerful and that's beside
multiplexing is probably the secondary,
most powerful benefit of using HTTP/2.
That's the other speed up that we get,
is compressing those headers.
But remember,
cookies can't be compressed generally.
You can, but it probably won't.
Because cookies change over time,
they're more dynamic.
So if you send a large cookie payload,
HTTP/2 is not gonna help you very much.
You wanna minimize the amount
of cookies you send.